Core java is a fundamental of java programming language.

using core java we can develop standalone application.standalone appliactions are those application which is
run on the single computer or device.
there are two types of standalone application in core java which is
a. GUI:these are those application which is not run by the command prompt.
Example:  Calculator
b. CUI: and these are the those appliaction which is run suing the command prompt.
Example: normal appliaction

If i have to develop web appliaction.what is web appliaction the application that uses internet is web appliaction.
Example : facebook,google,youtube , gmail etc. so using core java we can not develop these appliaction 
something more concept we have to need. and thats why we use advance java concept becuaseit provide us jdbc,servlet , web server
etc.

Advance java means only three technology:
a. jdbc:it is related to java standard edition
b. servlets: it is related to java enterprise edition
c. jsp:-it is related to java enterprise edition


java is divided into three parts:

a.java standard edition
b.java enterprise edition
c.java micro edition

In java basically three types of application we can develop:
a. standalone application :by using j2se knowledge
b. web application: by using advanced java knowledge
c. enterprise appliaction:by using framework knowledge


we use some architecture like 2 tier,3 tier and n tier archtecture to develop a application in java.

3 tier architecure is known as MVC architecture. where M standas for Model(database programming),
V stands for the View(client side programming,html/applet/swing/jsp),and C stands for the Controller
(server side programming,Servelets).

What is J2EE architecture?

basically it uses a multi-tiered architecture
Multi-tiered application:
a.client tier
n.middle tier
c.data tier

*.client makes a request to the middle tier
*.middle tier has the business function ,handles the client requests and process it.
*.store the application data in permanent data storage in data tier.
*.mainly concentrate of middle tier to make enterprise appliaction easier,obus and secure.


CLIENT TIER:
1.acts as an front end for an application
2.act as a user interface for appliaction.
3.get the input from the user and then convert into requests that are forwarded to the middle tier(server).
4.it transalte the server response into text and presented to the user.
5.A web browser,a standalone appliaction or other servers.
6.firewall are implemented to the client tier to secure the applications.




MIDDLE TIER:
1.consistes of noe or more sub tiers.
2.it process the request,generates the response and gives it to the client tier.3.
3. Mainly middle tier can be Application server or web server.
4.Various containers for processing the request
.Web container(web tier)
. EJB container9EJB tier)

Web Container:
used for develeop web appliactions.
provide internet functionality for J2EE appliaction.
Components: Servlets,JSP<HTML or XML.


EJB Conatainer:
used for deploy business appliactions.
Contains the collection of Enterprise Java Beans.
It conatins business logic of appliaction.
responsible for low level system services required to implement business logic of Enterprise Java beans

System services:

Resource pooling
distributed object protocols
Thread Management
state management
process management
object persistence
security
deploy time configuration

Example : Java mail,JMS etc.


EIS Tier:

provides a connectivity between a java EE. application and non java EE software.
include a variety of resources
database servers
enterprise resource planning system.
legacy system
it should be the back end for the appication.
provide flexibility to java EE developers.
