

WEB SERVICE: 

the web services means everything which you get over internet it just because of web services.
basicaly web services a medium to propagte communication between client and server application on the internet.
a web service is a software module that is designed to perform cetain set of task.


HOW WEB SERVICES WORK:

a client inovkes the series of web service via request to a server that would host by the actual web services.
these requests are made through remote procedure call(RPC).RPC are calls made to methods which are hosted by the 
relavent web services.

REMOTE PROCEDURE CALL: rpc means client and server it means client does not do its own work its give own work to server .
there are 5 elements in rpc
1.client
2.client stub 
3.rpc runtime
4.server stub
5.server.


client procedure calls client stub in normal way.
client stub build message calls local opearting system
client os sends message to remote os.
remote os gives message to server stub
server stub unpacks parameters calls server
server does work return result to server stub.
server stub pack message calls local os.
server'ós send message to client'ós.
client'os gives message to client stub .
stub unpacks result,returns to client.




As an example amazon provides a web service that provides price of product sold online via amazon.com the front end
 can be .net or java but either programming language would have the ability to communicate with web services.

THE MAIN COMPONENT OF WEB SERVICE:  the main component of web service design is data that is transfered between
the client and server that is XML.so when application talke to each other actually the talk in XML.


WHY DO WE NEED WEB SERVICE:

as we know in modern days all developers are making some web appliaction in differnet language.it may be java,.net and many more.
over the worl wide web they need some sort of communication to happen between them. because the are built using differenet language
\so it is very difficult to communicate for them.
to solve this problem web services come in.
it provide a platform where multipe applications built on various languages to have the 
ability to communicate with each other.

Java Web Services API:-

There are two main API's defined by Java for developing web service applications since JavaEE 6.

1) JAX-WS: for SOAP web services. The are two ways to write JAX-WS application code: by RPC style and Document style.

2) JAX-RS: for RESTful web services. There are mainly 2 implementation currently in use for creating JAX-RS application: Jersey and RESTeasy.


TYPE OF WEB SERVICE:

1.SOAP
2.REST

WEB SERVICE COMPONENET: there are three major web service component

1.soap
2.wsdl
3.rest

WSDL(WEB SERVICES DISCRIPTION LANGUGAE) :

wsdl is an xml based document file containing the information about web services  such as method name,
method parameter and how to acess it. wsdl acts as an interface between web server application.


SOAP(SIMPLE OBJECT ACCESS MODEL): 

soap is an xml bases protocol for acessing web services over http.
soap is a protocol or in other word is a definition of how web services talk to each other or talk to cilent 
application that invoke them.
every programming language cann understand the XML .But there is no standard specification on use of xml across all programming language for
data exchange. that is where soap comes in.
SOAP was designed to work with XML over http and have some sort of specification which could be used across
all application.


ADVANTAGE OF SOAP:

1.soap is a light weight protocol.
2. soap is platform and operating system independent.so it  can work any programming language.
3. http is default protocol used by all web services soap work with http.
4. soap defines its own security known as WS Security.


SOAP BUILDING BLOCKS:

soap specification defines something known SOAP message which is what is sent to web service and to the client appication.

in soap building block: 
there is a soap <envelope> it is used to encapsulate soap message.
                <header>  it conatins header information 
                  <body> it contains actual content.

SOAP MESSAGE STRUCTURE:

soap messages are auto generated by the web service when it is called.
a client application calls a method in the web service,the web service will automatically generate a soap message
which will have all the necessary details of data whihc will be sent to the client.





REST(REPRESENTAONAL STATE TRANSFER):


REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer. REST is web standards based architecture and uses HTTP Protocol. It revolves around resource where every component is a resource and a resource is accessed by a common interface using HTTP standard methods. REST was first introduced by Roy Fielding in 2000.

In REST architecture, a REST Server simply provides access to resources and REST client accesses and modifies the resources. Here each resource is identified by URIs/ global IDs. REST uses various representation to represent a resource like text, JSON, XML. JSON is the most popular one.

HTTP methods
Following four HTTP methods are commonly used in REST based architecture.

GET − Provides a read only access to a resource.

POST − Used to create a new resource.

DELETE − Used to remove a resource.

PUT − Used to update a existing resource or create a new resource.

What is a Resource?
REST architecture treats every content as a resource. These resources can be Text Files, Html Pages, Images, Videos or Dynamic Business Data. REST Server simply provides access to resources and REST client accesses and modifies the resources. Here each resource is identified by URIs/ Global IDs. REST uses various representations to represent a resource where Text, JSON, XML. The most popular representations of resources are XML and JSON.

Representation of Resources
A resource in REST is a similar Object in Object Oriented Programming or is like an Entity in a Database. Once a resource is identified then its representation is to be decided using a standard format so that the server can send the resource in the above said format and client can understand the same format.


