What is MVC Framework?:--->The Model-View-Controller (MVC) framework is an architectural pattern 
                          that separates an application into three main logical components Model, View, and Controller. 


1.MVC in JSP:--->MVC stands for Model View and Controller. 
                It is a design pattern that separates the business logic, presentation logic and data.

a.Controller :---->acts as an interface between View and Model. Controller intercepts all the incoming requests.

b.Model ----------->represents the state of the application i.e. data. It can also have business logic.

c.View  ----------->represents the presentaion i.e. UI(User Interface).




HISTORY OF MVC:--->

1.MVC architecture first discussed in 1979 by Trygve Reenskaug
2.MVC model was first introduced in 1987 in the Smalltalk programming language.
3.MVC was first time accepted as a general concept, in a 1988 article
4.In the recent time, MVC pattern is widely used in modern web applications


FEATURE OF MVC:->

1.To design a web application architecture using the MVC pattern, it offers full control over your HTML as well as your URLs
2.Clear separation of logic: Model, View, Controller. Separation of application tasks viz. business logic, Ul logic, and input logic.
3.Supports for Test Driven Development (TDD)




VIEW:-->
A View is that part of the application that represents the presentation of data.
Views are created by the data collected from the model data. 
A view requests the model to give information so that it resents the output presentation to the user.


MODEL:-->The model component stores data and its related logic.
         It responds to the request from the views and also responds to instructions from the controller to update itself. 



CONTROLLER:-->The Controller is that part of the application that handles the user interaction. The controller interprets the mouse and keyboard inputs from the user, 
             informing model and the view to change as appropriate.A Controller send's commands to the model to update its state(E.g., Saving a specific document). The controller also sends commands to its associated 
             view to change the view's presentation (For example scrolling a particular document).




Popular MVC web frameworks:-->
Here, is a list of some popular MVC frameworks:

Ruby on Rails
Django
CakePHP
Yii
CherryPy
Spring MVC
Catalyst
Rails
Zend Framework
CodeIgniter
Laravel
Fuel PHP
Symphony



ADVANTAGE OF MVC:-->
Easy code maintenance easy to extend and grow
MVC Model component can be tested separately from the user
Easier support for new type of clients


DISADVANTAGE OF MVC:--->

Difficult to read, change, to unit test, and reuse this model
Increased complexity and Inefficiency of data
Increased complexity and Inefficiency of data.





Object Relational Mapping:--->

Object Relational Mapping (ORM) is a functionality which is used to develop and maintain a relationship between an object and relational database by mapping an object state to database column. 
It is capable to handle various database operations easily such as inserting, updating, deleting etc.


ORM Frameworks
Following are the various frameworks that function on ORM mechanism: -

Hibernate
TopLink
ORMLite
iBATIS
JPOX
